[Identity] Modified Troubleshooting guide for CSS (#20223)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: sdk/identity/identity/Troubleshooting.md

## Troubleshooting Azure Identity Authentication Issues

This troubleshooting guide covers failure investigation techniques, common errors for the credential types in the Azure Identity client library for JavaScript and TypeScript, and mitigation steps to resolve these errors.

## Table of contents

> - [Handling Azure Identity Errors](#handling-azure-identity-errors)

Reviewer: Let's use sentence casing for section headings. Also, avoid gerunds (-ing words) in headings when possible.
```suggestion
- [Handle Azure Identity errors](#handle-azure-identity-errors)
```

  - [AuthenticationRequiredError](#authenticationrequirederror)
  - [CredentialUnavailableError](#credentialunavailableerror)
  - [AuthenticationError](#authenticationerror)

> - [Finding Relevant Information in Error Messages](#finding-relevant-information-in-error-messages)
> - [Enabling and Configuring Logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Find relevant information in error messages](#find-relevant-information-in-error-messages)
- [Enable and configure logging](#enable-and-configure-logging)
```

- [Permission issues](#permission-issues)
- [Troubleshoot default Azure credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-default-azure-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot service principal authentication issues](#troubleshoot-service-principal-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot username and password authentication issues](#troubleshoot-username-and-password-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Managed Identity authentication issues](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)
  - [Azure Virtual Machine Managed Identity](#azure-virtual-machine-managed-identity)
  - [Azure App Service and Azure Functions Managed Identity](#azure-app-service-and-azure-functions-managed-identity)
- [Troubleshoot Visual Studio Code authentication issues](#troubleshoot-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure PowerShell authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)

> ## Handling Azure Identity Errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Handle Azure Identity errors
```

const keyVaultUrl = `https://key-vault-name.vault.azure.net`;
const credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();
const client = new KeyClient(keyVaultUrl, credential);

try {
// Retrieving the properties of the existing keys in that specific Key Vault.
  console.log(await client.listPropertiesOfKeys().next());
} catch (error) {
  console.log("Authentication Failed", error.message);
}
```

### CredentialUnavailableError

The `CredentialUnavailableError` is used to indicate that the credential can’t authenticate in the current environment, due to lack of required configuration or setup. This error is also used as a signal to chained credential types, such as `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ChainedTokenCredential`, that the chained credential should continue to try other credential types later in the chain. In `ManagedIdentityCredential` it can also trigger if the authentication endpoints (like the IMDS endpoint) is unavailable.

### AuthenticationError

The `AuthenticationError` is used to indicate about a failure to authenticate with Azure Active Directory. The `errorResponse` field contains more details about the specific failure.

> ## Finding Relevant Information in Error Messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Find relevant information in error messages
```

Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00
Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841
Timestamp: 2022-02-04 00:28:06Z - Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841 - Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00`
This error contains several pieces of information:

- **Failing Credential Type**: The type of credential that failed to authenticate. This can be helpful when diagnosing issues with chained credential types such as `DefaultAzureCredential` or `ChainedTokenCredential`.

- **STS Error Code and Message**: The error code and message returned from the Azure AD STS. This can give insight into the specific reason the request failed. For instance in this specific case because the provided client secret is incorrect. More information on STS error codes can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com//azure/active-directory/develop/reference-aadsts-error-codes#aadsts-error-codes).

- **Correlation ID and Timestamp**: The correlation ID and call Timestamp used to identify the request in server-side logs. This information can be useful to support engineers when diagnosing unexpected STS failures.

> ### Enabling and Configuring Logging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Enable and configure logging
```

  - [Azure Virtual Machine Managed Identity](#azure-virtual-machine-managed-identity)
  - [Azure App Service and Azure Functions Managed Identity](#azure-app-service-and-azure-functions-managed-identity)
- [Troubleshoot Visual Studio Code authentication issues](#troubleshoot-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)
- [Troubleshoot Azure PowerShell authentication issues](#troubleshoot-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)

## Handle Azure Identity errors

### AuthenticationRequiredError

Errors arising from authentication issues can be thrown on any service client method that makes a request to the service. This is because the token is requested from the credential on the first call to the service and on any subsequent call that need to refresh the token.

To distinguish these failures from failures in the service client, Azure Identity classes throws the `AuthenticationRequiredError` with details describing the source of the error in the error message. Depending on the application, these errors may or may not be recoverable.

```ts

> import * from @azure/identity;
> import * from @azure/keyvault-secrets;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import * from “@azure/identity“;
import * from “@azure/keyvault-secrets“;
```

> // Create a key client using the DefaultAzureCredential
> const keyVaultUrl = `https://key-vault-name.vault.azure.net`;
> const credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();
> const client = new KeyClient(keyVaultUrl, credential);
> 
> try {
> // Retrieving the properties of the existing keys in that specific Key Vault.
>   console.log(await client.listPropertiesOfKeys().next());
> } catch (error) {
>   console.log("Authentication Failed", error.message);
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
async function main() {
  // Create a key client using the DefaultAzureCredential
  const keyVaultUrl = `https://key-vault-name.vault.azure.net`;
  const credential = new DefaultAzureCredential();
  const client = new KeyClient(keyVaultUrl, credential);

  try {
    // Retrieving the properties of the existing keys in that specific Key Vault.
    console.log(await client.listPropertiesOfKeys().next());
  } catch (error) {
    console.log("Authentication Failed", error.message);
  }
}

main();
```

```

### CredentialUnavailableError

> The `CredentialUnavailableError` is used to indicate that the credential can't authenticate in the current environment, due to lack of required configuration or setup. This error is also used as a signal to chained credential types, such as `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ChainedTokenCredential`, that the chained credential should continue to try other credential types later in the chain. In `ManagedIdentityCredential` it can also trigger if the authentication endpoints (like the IMDS endpoint) is unavailable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `CredentialUnavailableError` is used to indicate that the credential can't authenticate in the current environment due to lack of required configuration or setup. This error is also used as a signal to chained credential types, such as `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ChainedTokenCredential`, that the chained credential should continue to try other credential types later in the chain. In `ManagedIdentityCredential` it can also trigger if the authentication endpoints (like the IMDS endpoint) is unavailable.
```

### AuthenticationError

The `AuthenticationError` is used to indicate about a failure to authenticate with Azure Active Directory (Azure AD). The `errorResponse` field contains more details about the specific failure.

> 

Reviewer 2: What about adding something like this code snippet here?

```ts
try {
  console.log(await client.listPropertiesOfKeys().next());
} catch (error) {
  console.log("Azure Active Directory service response with error", error.errorResponse);
}
```

## Handling Azure Identity Errors

### AuthenticationRequiredError

Errors arising from authentication issues can be thrown on any service client method that makes a request to the service. This is because the token is requested from the credential on the first call to the service and on any subsequent call that need to refresh the token.

To distinguish these failures from failures in the service client, Azure Identity classes raise the `AuthenticationRequiredError` with details describing the source of the error in the exception message and possibly the error message. Depending on the application, these errors may or may not be recoverable.

```ts
import @azure/identity
import @azure/keyvault-secrets

// Create a key client using the DefaultAzureCredential
 const keyVaultUrl = `https://key-vault-name.vault.azure.net`;
 const client = new KeyClient(keyVaultUrl, new DefaultAzureCredential());

 try {
// Retrieving the properties of the existing keys in that specific Key Vault.
    console.log(await client.listPropertiesOfKeys().next());
 } catch (error) {
    console.log("Authentication Failed", error.message);

>  }

Reviewer 2: This snippet isn’t properly formatted 🙂 there are some extra spaces at the beginning of some lines. Also, can you initialize the credential before passing it to the `KeyClient`?

Author: done

```

### CredentialUnavailableError

> The `CredentialUnavailableError` is used to indicate that the credential can’t authenticate in the current environment, due to lack of required configuration or setup. This error is also used as a signal to chained credential types, such as `DefaultAzureCredential` and `ChainedTokenCredential`, that the chained credential should continue to try other credential types later in the chain.

Reviewer 2: I believe we should put emphasis on the environment here, since a credential may be unavailable if the credential can’t reach to the authentication endpoint.

Author: @sadasant Yeah we have mentioned that. "current environment". Do you have any suggestions like making it bold or changing the wording a bit to make it obvious?

### AuthenticationError

The `AuthenticationError` is used to indicate about a failure to authenticate with Azure Active Directory. The `errorResponse` field contains more details about the specific failure.

## Finding Relevant Information in Error Messages

> `AuthenticationRequiredError` is thrown when unexpected errors occurred while a credential is authenticating. This can include errors received from requests to the AAD STS and often contains information helpful to diagnosis. Consider the following `AuthenticationRequiredError` message.

Author: ```suggestion
`AuthenticationRequiredError` is thrown when unexpected errors occurred while a credential is authenticating. This can include errors received from requests to the AAD STS and often contains information helpful to diagnosis. Consider the following `AuthenticationRequiredError` message.
```
 AuthenticationRequiredError: invalid_request: 9002331 - [2022-02-04 00:28:06Z]: AADSTS9002331: Application '6b666991-4567-4982-9981-61877200efy1'(kaghiya-identity) is configured for use by Microsoft Account users only. Please use the /consumers endpoint to serve this request.
Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00
Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841
Timestamp: 2022-02-04 00:28:06Z - Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841 - Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00
```
```

> <--TODO-->

Reviewer 2: Is this intentional?

Author: Yes need to add in an example here. The image was missing from Scott's PR, so kinda clueless what I need to add here.

Author: added an example

> <--TODO-->

Author: ```suggestion
 AuthenticationRequiredError: invalid_request: 9002331 - [2022-02-04 00:28:06Z]: AADSTS9002331: Application '6b666991-4567-4982-9981-61877200efy1'(kaghiya-identity) is configured for use by Microsoft Account users only. Please use the /consumers endpoint to serve this request.
Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00
Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841
Timestamp: 2022-02-04 00:28:06Z - Correlation ID: 20267531-0284-4543-93d7-cf50919fd841 - Trace ID: 00a7e15c-4557-4974-91d5-886428b00e00
```

This error contains several pieces of information:

- **Failing Credential Type**: The type of credential that failed to authenticate. This can be helpful when diagnosing issues with chained credential types such as `DefaultAzureCredential` or `ChainedTokenCredential`.

- **STS Error Code and Message**: The error code and message returned from the Azure AD STS. This can give insight into the specific reason the request failed. For instance in this specific case because the provided client secret is incorrect. More information on STS error codes can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com//azure/active-directory/develop/reference-aadsts-error-codes#aadsts-error-codes).

- **Correlation ID and Timestamp**: The correlation ID and call Timestamp used to identify the request in server-side logs. This information can be useful to support engineers when diagnosing unexpected STS failures.

### Enabling and Configuring Logging

> The Azure Identity library provides the same [logging capabilities](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/core/Azure.Core/samples/Diagnostics.md#logging) as the rest of the Azure SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Azure Identity library has the same [logging capabilities](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/blob/main/sdk/core/Azure.Core/samples/Diagnostics.md#logging) as the rest of the Azure SDK.
```
nit: Provide feels like if the Identity library provided logging to other SDK clients. I know it doesn’t say that literally, but I have the feeling it could be misinterpreted.

> The simplest way to see the logs to help debug authentication issues is to enable the console logging.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This line seems unnecessary?

Author: So I took this sentence from .NET's Troubleshooting guide. They don't have the example for DefaultAzureCredential. But since we have it, this may look redundant.

Author: I wil lconsolidate lines 73 and 75

> To help diagnose any errors in credentials that encompass multiple credentials like `DefaultAzureCredential`, [enabling logging](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/README.md) will also help you get a better understanding.

Author: ```suggestion
To help debug authentication issues or diagnose any errors in credentials that encompass multiple credentials like `DefaultAzureCredential`, [enabling logging](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/sdk/identity/identity/README.md) will also help you get a better understanding.
```

These logging statements indicate that the `EnvironmentCredential` is being used for authentication and `ClientSecretCredential` is invoked.

> > CAUTION: Requests and responses in the Azure Identity library contain sensitive information. Precaution must be taken to protect logs when customizing the output to avoid compromising account security.

Reviewer 2: Good point! 🙂

## Troubleshoot default Azure credential authentication issues

### Credential unavailable

The `DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. In this scenario, the `CredentialUnavailableError` signifies that all credentials in the chain failed to retrieve the token in the current environment setup/configuration. You need to follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you're looking to use via the `DefaultAzureCredential` chain, so that the credential can work in your environment.

| Error |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |`CredentialUnavailableError` thrown with message. "DefaultAzureCredential failed to retrieve a token from the included credentials."|All credentials in the `DefaultAzureCredential` chain failed to retrieve a token, each throwing a `CredentialUnavailableError` themselves|<ul><li>[Enable logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging) to verify the credentials being tried, and get further diagnostic information.</li><li>Consult the troubleshooting guide for underlying credential types for more information.</li><ul><li>[EnvironmentCredential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[ManagedIdentityCredential](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCodeCredential](#troubleshoot-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCredential](#troubleshoot-visualstudio-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzureCLICredential](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzurePowershellCredential](#troubleshoot-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)</li></ul>|

Reviewer 2: Here it says `thrown with message. “Defau[…]` That dot before the quote is weird. Also, can we use the code quote where the message is? So that the message can look as if it was copied as is into the document?

> `CredentialUnavailableError` thrown with message: `DefaultAzureCredential failed to retrieve a token from the included credentials.`

What do you think?

> |`RestError` raised from the client with a status code of 401 or 403|Authentication succeeded but the authorizing Azure service responded with a 401 (Authenticate), or 403 (Forbidden) status code. This can often be caused by the `DefaultAzureCredential` authenticating an account other than the intended or that the required role assignment is not configured.|<ul><li>[Enable logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging) to determine which credential in the chain returned the authenticating token.</li><li>In the case a credential other than the expected is returning a token, bypass this by either signing out of the corresponding development tool, or excluding the credential with the ExcludeXXXCredential property in the `DefaultAzureCredentialOptions`</li><li>Confirm that the correct RBAC role is assigned to the identity being used to authenticate. For example, the resource specific role rather than just the inherited "Owner" role.</li></ul>|

Reviewer 2: I think it will look better with a dot after the `403` 🤔

## Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues

### Credential unavailable error

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |Environment variables aren't fully configured.|A valid combination of environment variables wasn't set.|Ensure the appropriate environment variables are set **prior to application startup** for the intended authentication method.<p/>  <ul><li>To authenticate a service principal using a client secret, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a service principal using a certificate, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a user using a password, ensure the variables `AZURE_USERNAME` and `AZURE_PASSWORD` are properly set.</li><ul>|

Reviewer 2: Environment variables are not the only reason why CredentialUnavailableError could trigger. It can also trigger if the authentication endpoints (like the IMDS endpoint) is unavailable.

Author: Thta happens in Managed Identity cred right? We have mentioned in the `Azure Virtual Machine Managed Identity` section

Reviewer 2: ok thanks!

These logging statements indicate that the `EnvironmentCredential` is being used for authentication and `ClientSecretCredential` is invoked.

> CAUTION: Requests and responses in the Azure Identity library contain sensitive information. Precaution must be taken to protect logs when customizing the output to avoid compromising account security.

## Permission issues

> If you're using app registration to authenticate the service, ensure the app registration has the correct permissions and role assignments in the service you want to use. For example, if you want to have access to the Azure App Configuration service through Azure Active Directory (Azure AD), make sure your app registration has the permissions and the role assignments for access to Azure AD. You can either be assigned the role directly or be in a group that is assigned the role. The "Contributor" and the "Owner" roles allow you to manage the App Configuration resource. In this case, you can either use "App Configuration Data Owner" directly on the user or the Azure AD group. Alternatively, use "Owner" on the Azure AD group. While the App Configuration data can be accessed using access keys, these keys don't grant direct access to the data using Azure AD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using app registration to authenticate the service, ensure the app registration has the correct permissions and role assignments in the service you want to use. For example, if you want to have access to the Azure App Configuration service through Azure AD, ensure your app registration has the permissions and role assignments for access to Azure AD. You can either be assigned the role directly or be in a group that's assigned the role. The "Contributor" and the "Owner" roles allow you to manage the App Configuration resource. In this case, you can either use "App Configuration Data Owner" directly on the user or the Azure AD group. Alternatively, use "Owner" on the Azure AD group. While the App Configuration data can be accessed using access keys, these keys don't grant direct access to the data using Azure AD.
```

## Troubleshoot default Azure credential authentication issues

### Credential unavailable

The `DefaultAzureCredential` attempts to retrieve an access token by sequentially invoking a chain of credentials. In this scenario, the `CredentialUnavailableError` signifies that all credentials in the chain failed to retrieve the token in the current environment setup/configuration. You need to follow the configuration instructions for the respective credential you're looking to use via the `DefaultAzureCredential` chain, so that the credential can work in your environment.

| Error |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |`CredentialUnavailableError` thrown with message. `DefaultAzureCredential failed to retrieve a token from the included credentials.`|All credentials in the `DefaultAzureCredential` chain failed to retrieve a token, each throwing a `CredentialUnavailableError` themselves|<ul><li>[Enable logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging) to verify the credentials being tried, and get further diagnostic information.</li><li>Consult the troubleshooting guide for underlying credential types for more information.</li><ul><li>[EnvironmentCredential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[ManagedIdentityCredential](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCodeCredential](#troubleshoot-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCredential](#troubleshoot-visualstudio-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzureCLICredential](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzurePowershellCredential](#troubleshoot-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`CredentialUnavailableError` thrown with message `DefaultAzureCredential failed to retrieve a token from the included credentials.`|All credentials in the `DefaultAzureCredential` chain failed to retrieve a token, each throwing a `CredentialUnavailableError` themselves.|<ul><li>[Enable logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging) to verify the credentials being tried, and get further diagnostic information.</li><li>Consult the troubleshooting guide for underlying credential types for more information.</li><ul><li>[EnvironmentCredential](#troubleshoot-environment-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[ManagedIdentityCredential](#troubleshoot-managed-identity-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCodeCredential](#troubleshoot-visual-studio-code-authentication-issues)</li><li>[VisualStudioCredential](#troubleshoot-visualstudio-credential-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzureCLICredential](#troubleshoot-azure-cli-authentication-issues)</li><li>[AzurePowershellCredential](#troubleshoot-azure-powershell-authentication-issues)</li></ul>|
```

|`RestError` raised from the client with a status code of 401 or 403.|Authentication succeeded but the authorizing Azure service responded with a 401 (Authenticate), or 403 (Forbidden) status code. This can often be caused by the `DefaultAzureCredential` authenticating an account other than the intended or that the required role assignment is not configured.|<ul><li>[Enable logging](#enabling-and-configuring-logging) to determine which credential in the chain returned the authenticating token.</li><li>In the case a credential other than the expected is returning a token, bypass this by either signing out of the corresponding development tool, or excluding the credential with the ExcludeXXXCredential property in the `DefaultAzureCredentialOptions`</li><li>Confirm that the correct RBAC role is assigned to the identity being used to authenticate. For example, the resource specific role rather than just the inherited "Owner" role.</li></ul>|

## Troubleshoot environment credential authentication issues

### CredentialUnavailableError

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |Environment variables aren't fully configured.|A valid combination of environment variables wasn't set.|Ensure the appropriate environment variables are set **prior to application startup** for the intended authentication method.<p/>  <ul><li>To authenticate a service principal using a client secret, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a service principal using a certificate, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a user using a password, ensure the variables `AZURE_USERNAME` and `AZURE_PASSWORD` are properly set.</li><ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Environment variables aren't fully configured.|A valid combination of environment variables wasn't set.|Ensure the appropriate environment variables are set **prior to application startup** for the intended authentication method.<p/>  <ul><li>To authenticate a service principal using a client secret, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID` and `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a service principal using a certificate, ensure the variables `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_TENANT_ID`, and `AZURE_CLIENT_CERTIFICATE_PATH` are properly set.</li><li>To authenticate a user using a password, ensure the variables `AZURE_USERNAME` and `AZURE_PASSWORD` are properly set.</li><ul>|
```

### Client secret credential issues

> #### `AuthenticationRequiredError`

Reviewer 2: This seems to be the first title within code quotes in this document. Is it intentional?

Author: I think i just copied that from .NET style. I will remove it

### Client certificate credential issues

#### `AuthenticationRequiredError`

| Error Code | Description | Mitigation |
|---|---|---|
|AADSTS700016|The specified application wasn’t found in the specified tenant.| Ensure the specified `clientId` and `tenantId` are correct for your application registration. For multi-tenant apps, ensure the application has been added to the desired tenant by a tenant admin. To add a new application in the desired tenant, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/javascript/how-to/with-sdk/set-up-development-environment?tabs=azure-sdk-for-javascript#1-create-a-service-principal).|
#### Client certificate argument

| Error Code | Description | Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |undefined| ClientCertificateCredential: Provide either a PEM certificate in string form, or the path to that certificate in the filesystem. To troubleshoot, visit https://aka.ms/azsdk/js/identity/serviceprincipalauthentication/troubleshoot.| The `ClientCertificateCredential` accepts PEM certificates and the path for the certificate needs to be provided(`pfx` certificates aren't supported by the JavaScript SDK for now). The certificate needs to be associated with your registered app/service principal. To create and associate a certificate with your registered app, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).|

Reviewer 2: Does it say `undefined`? Undefined seems like there was a problem generating this document.

Reviewer 2: Also, this link <https://aka.ms/azsdk/js/identity/serviceprincipalauthentication/troubleshoot> , it might be better to put it within another text, like [this](https://aka.ms/azsdk/js/identity/serviceprincipalauthentication/troubleshoot). I believe it will make the table look better 🤔

Author: Yeah but that is the error message which the user will see - so they will see a link
For the Error Code - since this is custom error it has no error code from the service - since the request won't go to the service yet. So should I remove the error code section completely and mention before the table that these will have no error codes from the service since these errors will be thrown by the SDK?

Reviewer 2: I like that! you can also replace `undefined` with something like `No error code.` — Up to you!

|The request failed due to a gateway error.|The request to the IMDS endpoint failed due to a gateway error, 502 or 504 status code.|Calls via proxy or gateway aren’t supported by IMDS. Disable proxies or gateways running on the VM for calls to the IMDS endpoint `http://169.254.169.254/`|
|No response received from the managed identity endpoint.|No response was received for the request to IMDS or the request timed out.|<ul><li>Ensure managed identity has been properly configured on the VM. Instructions for configuring the manged identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm).</li><li>Verify the IMDS endpoint is reachable on the VM, see [below](#verifying-imds-is-available-on-the-vm) for instructions.</li></ul>|

> |Multiple attempts failed to obtain a token from the managed identity endpoint.|Retries to retrieve a token from the IMDS endpoint have been exhausted.|<ul><li>Refer to inner error messages for more details on specific failures. If the data has been truncated, more detail can be obtained by [collecting logs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity#logging).</li><li>Ensure managed identity has been properly configured on the VM. Instructions for configuring the manged identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm).</li><li>Verify the IMDS endpoint is reachable on the VM, see [below](#verifying-imds-is-available-on-the-vm) for instructions.</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Multiple attempts failed to obtain a token from the managed identity endpoint.|Retries to retrieve a token from the IMDS endpoint have been exhausted.|<ul><li>Refer to inner error messages for more details on specific failures. If the data has been truncated, more detail can be obtained by [collecting logs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity#logging).</li><li>Ensure managed identity has been properly configured on the VM. Instructions for configuring the manged identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm).</li><li>Verify the IMDS endpoint is reachable on the VM, see [below](#verify-imds-is-available-on-the-vm) for instructions.</li></ul>|
```

> #### __Verifying IMDS is available on the VM__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### __Verify IMDS is available on the VM__
```

If you have access to the VM, you can verify the manged identity endpoint is available via the command line using curl. 

```bash
curl 'http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token?resource=https://management.core.windows.net&api-version=2018-02-01' -H "Metadata: true"
```
> Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.
### Azure App Service and Azure Functions Managed Identity

> #### CredentialUnavailableError

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### CredentialUnavailableError

```

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |ManagedIdentityCredential authentication unavailable.|The environment variables configured by the App Services host weren’t present.|<ul><li>Ensure the managed identity has been properly configured on the App Service. Instructions for configuring the managed identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=dotnet).</li><li>Verify the App Service environment is properly configured and the managed identity endpoint is available. See [below](#verifying-the-app-service-managed-identity-endpoint-is-available) for instructions.</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ManagedIdentityCredential authentication unavailable.|The environment variables configured by the App Services host weren't present.|<ul><li>Ensure the managed identity has been properly configured on the App Service. Instructions for configuring the managed identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity?tabs=dotnet).</li><li>Verify the App Service environment is properly configured and the managed identity endpoint is available. See [below](#verify-the-app-service-managed-identity-endpoint-is-available) for instructions.</li></ul>|
```

> #### __Verifying the App Service managed identity endpoint is available__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### __Verify the App Service managed identity endpoint is available__
```

If you have access to SSH into the App Service, you can verify managed identity is available in the environment. First ensure the environment variables `MSI_ENDPOINT` and `MSI_SECRET` have been set in the environment. Then you can verify the managed identity endpoint is available using curl.
```bash
curl 'http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token?resource=https://management.core.windows.net&api-version=2018-02-01' -H "Metadata: true"
```

> > Note that the output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> Note that the output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.
```

### Client certificate credential issues

#### AuthenticationRequiredError

| Error Code | Description | Mitigation |
|---|---|---|
|AADSTS700016|The specified application wasn’t found in the specified tenant.| Ensure the specified `clientId` and `tenantId` are correct for your application registration. For multi-tenant apps, ensure the application has been added to the desired tenant by a tenant admin. To add a new application in the desired tenant, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/developer/javascript/how-to/with-sdk/set-up-development-environment?tabs=azure-sdk-for-javascript#1-create-a-service-principal).|
#### Client certificate argument

These errors will be thrown by the JS Identity SDK and thus will have no error codes from the service.

| Error Code | Description | Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |No error code| ClientCertificateCredential: Provide either a PEM certificate in string form, or the path to that certificate in the filesystem. To troubleshoot, visit https://aka.ms/azsdk/js/identity/serviceprincipalauthentication/troubleshoot.| The `ClientCertificateCredential` accepts PEM certificates and the path for the certificate needs to be provided(`pfx` certificates aren't supported by the JavaScript SDK for now). The certificate needs to be associated with your registered app/service principal. To create and associate a certificate with your registered app, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).|
> |No error code| The file at the specified path does not contain a PEM-encoded certificate.| Provide only PEM certificates for `ClientCertificateCredential`. `pfx` certificates aren't supported by the JavaScript SDK for now.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|No error code| ClientCertificateCredential: Provide either a PEM certificate in string form, or the path to that certificate in the filesystem. To troubleshoot, visit https://aka.ms/azsdk/js/identity/serviceprincipalauthentication/troubleshoot.| The `ClientCertificateCredential` accepts PEM certificates and the path for the certificate needs to be provided(`pfx` certificates aren't supported by the JavaScript library for now). The certificate needs to be associated with your registered app/service principal. To create and associate a certificate with your registered app, follow the instructions [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-1-upload-a-certificate).|
|No error code| The file at the specified path doesn't contain a PEM-encoded certificate.| Provide only PEM certificates for `ClientCertificateCredential`. `pfx` certificates aren't supported by the JavaScript library for now.|
```

|Host Environment|Configuration |Troubleshoot |
|---|---|---|
|Azure Virtual Machines and Scale Sets|[Configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm)|[Troubleshooting](#azure-virtual-machine-managed-identity)|
|Azure App Service and Azure Functions|[Configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/app-service/overview-managed-identity)|[Troubleshooting](#azure-app-service-and-azure-functions-managed-identity)|
|Azure Kubernetes Service|[Configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/aks/use-managed-identity)|[Troubleshooting]|
|Azure Arc|[Configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-arc/servers/security-overview#using-a-managed-identity-with-azure-arc-enabled-servers)|[Troubleshooting]|

> |Azure Service Fabric|[Configuration](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/service-fabric/configure-existing-cluster-enable-managed-identity-token-service)|[Troubleshooting]|

Reviewer: Looks like the troubleshooting URLs are missing in these 3 rows.

```bash
curl 'http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token?resource=https://management.core.windows.net&api-version=2018-02-01' -H "Metadata: true"
```

> Note that the output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

## Troubleshoot Visual Studio Code authentication issues

### CredentialUnavailableError

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|
|Failed To Read VS Code Credentials<p/><p/>OR<p/>Authenticate via Azure Tools plugin in VS Code.|No Azure account information was found in the VS Code configuration.|<ul><li>Ensure the [Azure Account plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.azure-account) is properly installed</li><li>Use **View > Command Palette** to execute the **Azure: Sign In** command. This command opens a browser window and displays a page that allows you to sign in to Azure.</li><li>If you already had the Azure Account extension installed and had logged in to your account, try logging out and logging in again as that will repopulate the cache and potentially mitigate the error you're getting.</li></ul>|

> |MSAL Interaction Required Error|The `VisualStudioCodeCredential` was able to read the cached credentials from the cache but the cached token is likely expired.|Log into the Azure Account extension via **View > Command Palette** to execute the **Azure: Sign In** command in the VS Code IDE.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|MSAL Interaction Required Error|The `VisualStudioCodeCredential` was able to read the cached credentials from the cache but the cached token is likely expired.|Log into the VS Code *Azure Account* extension via **View** > **Command Palette** to execute the **Azure: Sign In** command.|
```

|Multiple attempts failed to obtain a token from the managed identity endpoint.|Retries to retrieve a token from the IMDS endpoint have been exhausted.|<ul><li>Refer to inner error messages for more details on specific failures. If the data has been truncated, more detail can be obtained by [collecting logs](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net/tree/main/sdk/identity/Azure.Identity#logging).</li><li>Ensure managed identity has been properly configured on the VM. Instructions for configuring the manged identity can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/managed-identities-azure-resources/qs-configure-portal-windows-vm).</li><li>Verify the IMDS endpoint is reachable on the VM, see [below](#verify-imds-is-available-on-the-vm) for instructions.</li></ul>|

#### __Verify IMDS is available on the VM__

If you have access to the VM, you can verify the manged identity endpoint is available via the command line using curl. 

```bash
curl 'http://169.254.169.254/metadata/identity/oauth2/token?resource=https://management.core.windows.net&api-version=2018-02-01' -H "Metadata: true"
```

> > Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

Reviewer: Add line break.

```suggestion

> Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.
```

#### __Verifying Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens__
You can manually verify that Azure PowerShell is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First use the `Get-AzContext` command to verify the account which is currently logged in to the Azure CLI. 

```
PS C:\> Get-AzContext
Name                                     Account             SubscriptionName    Environment         TenantId
----                                     -------             ----------------    -----------         --------
Subscription1 (xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxx... test@outlook.com    Subscription1       AzureCloud          xxxxxxxx-x...
```
Once you've verified Azure PowerShell is using correct account, you can validate that it’s able to obtain tokens for this account.

```bash
Get-AzAccessToken -ResourceUrl "https://management.core.windows.net"
```
If the preceding command isn't working properly, follow the instructions to resolve the Azure PowerShell issue. Then try running the credential again.

>Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

> 

Reviewer 2: Can we add a separator here? like `---`

---

Like that. What do you think?

Author: You mean before the note or after?
I don't mind - but we haven't added a separator anywhere else in the file - if we want to add - let's standardize that across sections.  After what sections do we want to add separators?

## Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues

### CredentialUnavailableError

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |Azure CLI not installed|The Azure CLI isn’t installed or couldn’t be found.|<ul><li>Ensure the Azure CLI is properly installed. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).</li><li>Validate the installation location has been added to the `PATH` environment variable.</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Azure CLI not installed|The Azure CLI isn't installed or couldn't be found.|<ul><li>Ensure the Azure CLI is properly installed. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).</li><li>Validate the installation location has been added to the `PATH` environment variable.</li></ul>|
```

|Please run 'az login' to set up account|No account is currently logged into the Azure CLI, or the login has expired.|<ul><li>Log into the Azure CLI using the `az login` command. More information on authentication in the Azure CLI can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).</li><li>Validate that the Azure CLI can obtain tokens. See [below](#verifying-the-azure-cli-can-obtain-tokens) for instructions.</li></ul>|

> #### __Verifying the Azure CLI can obtain tokens__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### __Verify the Azure CLI can obtain tokens__
```

> You can manually verify that the Azure CLI is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First use the `account` command to verify the account which is currently logged in to the Azure CLI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manually verify that the Azure CLI is properly authenticated and can obtain tokens. First, use the `account` command to verify the account which is currently logged into the Azure CLI. 
```

```bash
az account show
```

> Once you've verified the Azure CLI is using correct account, you can validate that it’s able to obtain tokens for this account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once you've verified the Azure CLI is using the correct account, you can validate it's able to obtain tokens for this account.
```

```bash
az account get-access-token --output json --resource https://management.core.windows.net
```
>Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

## Troubleshoot Azure PowerShell authentication issues
### CredentialUnavailableError
| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|

> |PowerShell isn’t installed.|No local installation of PowerShell was found.|Ensure that PowerShell is properly installed on the machine. Instructions for installing PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell).|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|PowerShell isn't installed.|No local installation of PowerShell was found.|Ensure that PowerShell is properly installed on the machine. Instructions for installing PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell).|
```

> |Az.Account module >= 2.2.0 isn’t installed.|The Az.Account module needed for authentication in Azure PowerShell isn’t installed.|Install the latest Az.Account module. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps). To use the Azure PowerShell credential, install the Azure Az PowerShell module:```powershell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Az.Account module >= 2.2.0 isn’t installed.|The `Az.Account` module needed for authentication in Azure PowerShell isn't installed.|Install the latest `Az.Account` module. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps). To use the Azure PowerShell credential, install the Azure Az PowerShell module:```powershell
```

Install-Module -Name Az -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery -Force
```|

> |Please run 'Connect-AzAccount' to set up account.|No account is currently logged into Azure PowerShell.|<ul><li>Login to Azure PowerShell using the `Connect-AzAccount` command. More instructions for authenticating Azure PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps)</li><li>Validate that Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens. See [below](#verifying-azure-powershell-can-obtain-tokens) for instructions.</li></ul>|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Please run 'Connect-AzAccount' to set up account.|No account is currently logged into Azure PowerShell.|<ul><li>Login to Azure PowerShell using the `Connect-AzAccount` command. More instructions for authenticating Azure PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps)</li><li>Validate that Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens. See [below](#verify-azure-powershell-can-obtain-tokens) for instructions.</li></ul>|
```

> #### __Verifying Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens__

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### __Verify Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens__

```

> You can manually verify that Azure PowerShell is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First use the `Get-AzContext` command to verify the account which is currently logged in to the Azure CLI. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can manually verify that Azure PowerShell is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First, use the `Get-AzContext` command to verify the account which is currently logged into the Azure CLI. 
```

## Troubleshoot Azure CLI authentication issues

### CredentialUnavailableError

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|
|Azure CLI not installed|The Azure CLI isn't installed or couldn't be found.|<ul><li>Ensure the Azure CLI is properly installed. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli).</li><li>Validate the installation location has been added to the `PATH` environment variable.</li></ul>|
|Please run 'az login' to set up account|No account is currently logged into the Azure CLI, or the login has expired.|<ul><li>Log into the Azure CLI using the `az login` command. More information on authentication in the Azure CLI can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/authenticate-azure-cli).</li><li>Validate that the Azure CLI can obtain tokens. See [below](#verify-the-azure-cli-can-obtain-tokens) for instructions.</li></ul>|
#### __Verify the Azure CLI can obtain tokens__

You can manually verify that the Azure CLI is properly authenticated and can obtain tokens. First, use the `account` command to verify the account which is currently logged into the Azure CLI. 

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```azurecli
```

az account show
```

Once you've verified the Azure CLI is using the correct account, you can validate it's able to obtain tokens for this account.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```azurecli
```

#### __Verify Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens__

You can manually verify that Azure PowerShell is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First, use the `Get-AzContext` command to verify the account which is currently logged into the Azure CLI. 

```
PS C:\> Get-AzContext
Name                                     Account             SubscriptionName    Environment         TenantId
----                                     -------             ----------------    -----------         --------
Subscription1 (xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxx... test@outlook.com    Subscription1       AzureCloud          xxxxxxxx-x...
```
Once you've verified Azure PowerShell is using correct account, you can validate that it’s able to obtain tokens for this account.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```powershell
```

```azurecli
az account get-access-token --output json --resource https://management.core.windows.net
```
>Note that output of this command will contain a valid access token, and SHOULD NOT BE SHARED to avoid compromising account security.

## Troubleshoot Azure PowerShell authentication issues

### CredentialUnavailableError

| Error Message |Description| Mitigation |
|---|---|---|
|PowerShell isn't installed.|No local installation of PowerShell was found.|Ensure that PowerShell is properly installed on the machine. Instructions for installing PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell).|
|Az.Account module >= 2.2.0 isn’t installed.|The `Az.Account` module needed for authentication in Azure PowerShell isn't installed.|Install the latest `Az.Account` module. Installation instructions can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/install-az-ps). To use the Azure PowerShell credential, install the Azure Az PowerShell module:```powershell
Install-Module -Name Az -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery -Force

> ```|

Reviewer 2: This

    ```powershell
    Install-Module -Name Az -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery -Force 
    ```

Is broken. I think the fix is to just inline it, like `Install-Module -Name Az -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery -Force`

Install-Module -Name Az -Scope CurrentUser -Repository PSGallery -Force
```|
|Please run 'Connect-AzAccount' to set up account.|No account is currently logged into Azure PowerShell.|<ul><li>Login to Azure PowerShell using the `Connect-AzAccount` command. More instructions for authenticating Azure PowerShell can be found [here](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps)</li><li>Validate that Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens. See [below](#verify-azure-powershell-can-obtain-tokens) for instructions.</li></ul>|

#### Verify Azure PowerShell can obtain tokens

You can manually verify that Azure PowerShell is properly authenticated, and can obtain tokens. First, use the `Get-AzContext` command to verify the account which is currently logged into the Azure CLI. 

```
PS C:\> Get-AzContext
Name                                     Account             SubscriptionName    Environment         TenantId
----                                     -------             ----------------    -----------         --------
Subscription1 (xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxx... test@outlook.com    Subscription1       AzureCloud          xxxxxxxx-x...
```

> Once you've verified Azure PowerShell is using correct account, you can validate that it’s able to obtain tokens for this account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've verified Azure PowerShell is using the correct account, you can validate that it's able to obtain tokens for this account.
```
